---
title: "Week Notes #5"
tags: week-notes
---

* Some things are a blessing in disguise: we started the week blocked on our
  current piece of work, which [after the hectic week previously][1] really
  helped,
* This was because we were blocked on everything as the feature we're working
  on depends on an API, which depends on the release of a service rewrite and
  the next (and final) bit of work is the same as we've already done. We could
  certainly _do more_ but also achieve _less_, it's a tough one but was the
  right call,
* Tuesday morning was entertaining: the combination of a strong headwind and
  last weekend meant cycling was the worst it's been in a very long time and I
  barely could get up the hills,
* I [finished the first pass at some tooling][2] I'm working on to improve my
  maintainer workflow. It allows you to check out a contributors' pull request
  in your local clone, whilst maintaining your ability to push changes back to
  their branch. I need to write it all up yet and give it a spin for a couple
  of weeks to check it works well but so far I'm pretty pleased with it,
* This week, I started on an bike interval training regime as I try and build
  up my bike fitness. Unfortunately, this means I won't be running again for
  quite a while (trying to fit both in is …not practical),
* On Thursday, I overzealous in merging some work I'd been working on without
  getting it QA'ed. It did, of course, break. With it being both paired on and
  test-driven, I came at it with a lot of confidence that it'd be fine. Our
  bit was, sadly the requests it makes goes to a service not quite as reliable,
* I enjoyed reading
  [Andrew Hao's _High Output Management for (Non-managing) Tech Leads_][3] this
  week. I find a lot of leadership/management articles useful in a consulting
  context (although, often with a bit of a leap and with the passage of
  time). As a consultant, I'm always on the look out for work of high leverage
  (especially when this means ignoring fun but not-valuable work). Similarly,
  the questions to ask around output indicators are helpful (e.g.: "What do
  you care about seeing?", "What worries you the most about our team?")

[1]: https://nickcharlton.net/posts/week-notes-4.html
[2]: https://github.com/nickcharlton/dotfiles/pull/26
[3]: https://www.g9labs.com/2020/01/04/high-output-management-for-non-managing-tech-leads/
